Titanic Survival Prediction
This repository contains a Python script for predicting the survival of passengers aboard the Titanic using a Feedforward Neural Network (FNN) model. The script includes data loading, preprocessing, feature scaling, model building, and evaluation.
Script Overview

EDA and Preprocessing: Perform exploratory data analysis (EDA) and data preprocessing, including:
Checking for missing values in the datasets.
Replacing missing values with the median.
Handling empty strings by replacing them with NaN.
Handling missing values in the 'Embarked' column.
Replacing missing values in the 'Age' column with the median.
Dropping unnecessary columns.
Encoding categorical variables using dummy variables.
Split and Standardize the Data: Split the data into training and test sets and standardize the features using scikit-learn's StandardScaler.

Build the FNN Model: Build a Feedforward Neural Network (FNN) model using PyTorch. The model includes input, hidden, and output layers.
Training: Train the FNN model on the training data using binary cross-entropy loss and the Adam optimizer.
Evaluation of the Model: Evaluate the model's performance using accuracy and calculate the percentage of male and female survivors based on the training data.
Running the Script
To run the script, follow these steps:
Ensure you have Python installed on your system.
Install the required Python libraries using pip:

pip install numpy pandas matplotlib scikit-learn torch
Download the Titanic dataset (train.csv and test.csv) and place them in the same directory as the script.

Run the script:
python titanic_survival_prediction.py
The script will load the data, preprocess it, build the FNN model, train the model, and provide evaluation results.

Results
The script prints the accuracy of the FNN model.
It also calculates and prints the percentage of male and female survivors based on the training data.
For any additional modifications or customizations, you can refer to the script provided in this repository.

Citation
Will Cukierski. (2012). Titanic - Machine Learning from Disaster. Kaggle. https://kaggle.com/competitions/titanic
